h1. JQuery plugin for HTML5 native Drag&Drop

This is a work in progress. Tested on Firefox 3.6 and Safari 4.0.4 on MacOS. Comments are welcome. 

h2. Fixing JQuery events

The plugin restore the **dataTransfer** property to JQuery events:

bc. $('img').bind('dragstart', function(e) {
    e.dataTransfer.setData( 'URL', $(this).attr('href) ) // <-- yes e.dataTransfer is now available!
})

h2. Shortcut methods

The plugin add needed events binding shortcut methods:

* $.drag()
* $.dragenter()
* $.dragleave()
* $.dragover()
* $.dragstart()
* $.dragend()
* $.drop()

For example:

bc. $('img').dragstart(function() {
    e.dataTransfer.setData( 'URL', $(this).attr('href) ) 
})

h2. Fixing CSS

Webkit based browser need a custom CSS rule to define elements as **draggable**. The plugin insert it automatically.

In fact, these rules are inserted to the current document:

bc. [draggable=true] {
    -webkit-user-drag: element; 
    -webkit-user-select: none; 
    -moz-user-select: none;
}

h2. $.draggable()

bc. .draggable( dragstartHandler, [dragendHandler] )

The **.draggable** method allows to define a element as draggable, and help to set the **dataTranser** content. You return the **dataTranser** content as a JSON object in the **dragstart** handler.

Elements must define the **draggable="true"** attribute.

bc. $('img').draggable(
    function() {
        return {
            'URL': $(this).attr('href'),
            'Text': $(this).attr('alt') || $(this).attr('href')
        }
    }
)

You can also add the **effect** property to define the allowed drag effects:

bc. $('img').draggable(
    function() {
        return {
            effect: 'copyMove',
            'URL': $(this).attr('href'),
            'Text': $(this).attr('alt') || $(this).attr('href')
        }
    }
)

**.draggable** uses live events. That means that you can add new draggable elements matching the selector in the document later.

h2. $.droppable()

bc. .droppable( contentTypes, [dragenterHandler], [dragleaveHandler], [drophandler] )

The **.droppable** method allows to define a element as a drop zone for several data types. The **dragenter** and **dragleave** handler are called when the drop zone receive a drag of a expected content type (in the same time it fix problems caused by events bubbling in contained elements).

The **contentTypes** argument is a list of space separated accepted content type. Using '*' means that the drop zone accept anything.

Example:

bc. $('#events').droppable(
    'text/x-vCalendar',
    function() {
        $(this).addClass('dropZone')
    },
    function() {
        $(this).removeClass('dropZone')
    },
    function(e) {
        alert( 'Dropped --> ' + e.dataTransfer.getData('text/x-vCalendar') )
    }
)

The standard content types shortcuts **URL**, **Text** and **Files** are supported.

**.droppable** uses live events. That means that you can add new drop zones matching the selector in the document later.

h2. Demonstration

The **example.html** file contains several examples.